# Hill Climbing Algorithm Implementation

This repository contains an implementation of the **Hill Climbing Algorithm** to solve the **Find Target String** problem. The algorithm is designed to evolve a randomly generated string toward a target string through iterative improvements.

## What is Hill Climbing Algorithm?

The Hill Climbing Algorithm is a heuristic search algorithm used for mathematical optimization problems. It starts with an arbitrary solution to a problem and iteratively makes small changes (or "moves") to the solution. The algorithm evaluates these changes, retaining the best solution found so far. If a neighboring solution has a better fitness score, it becomes the new current solution. The process continues until no further improvements can be made, or a predetermined number of iterations is reached.

### Key Stages of the Algorithm:

1. **Initialization**:
   - A random string is generated as the starting point.

2. **Fitness Evaluation**:
   - The fitness of the current string is calculated by comparing it to the target string. The fitness score is determined by the number of characters in the current string that match the target string.

3. **Neighbor Generation**:
   - A neighboring string is generated by modifying one random character of the current string.

4. **Comparison**:
   - The fitness of the new neighboring string is evaluated.
   - If the new string has a higher fitness score than the current string, it becomes the new current string.

5. **Termination**:
   - The process repeats until the target string is found or the maximum number of iterations is reached.

## How to Run

To run the program, follow these steps:

1. Open the `Main.kt` file in your development environment.

2. Run the `Main.kt` file. This will execute the Hill Climbing algorithm implementation that aims to evolve a randomly generated string toward the target string `"FIND ME"`.

3. You can customize the target string directly in the `Main.kt` file by changing the string passed to the `run` method of `SimpleHillClimbingAlgorithm`.

   Example:
      val simpleHillClimbingAlgorithm = SimpleHillClimbingAlgorithm().run("HELLO WORLD")
   
4. After running Main.kt, you will see the output indicating whether the target string was found and the number of iterations it took.

## Conclusion
This implementation showcases how the Hill Climbing Algorithm can be applied to solve the target string problem through iterative optimization. Feel free to modify the code and experiment with different target strings to see how the algorithm performs!
